The President:
Today, I'm speaking to you from
Indonesia as I finish up my trip
to the Asia-Pacific -- the
region where we do most of our
trade and sell most
of our exports.
Now, over the past week, the
progress we've made in opening
markets and boosting exports
here will help create more jobs
and more growth in
the United States.
Here in Indonesia, I was proud
to join leaders from some of our
nation's top companies as they
announced trade deals that will
support nearly 130,000 American
jobs and potentially increase
U.S. exports by
up to $39 billion.
Boeing, for example, will
sell more than 200 planes to
Indonesia that are built with
parts from suppliers in more
than 40 states.
And a deal to export GE engines
will support jobs at plant in
Ohio and North Carolina.
These agreements will help
us reach my goal of doubling
American exports by 2014 --
a goal we're on pace to meet.
And there are powerful examples
of how we can rebuild an economy
that's focused on what our
country has always done best --
making and selling products all
over the world that are stamped
with three proud words:
"Made in America."
This is important because
over the last decade,
we became a country that relied
too much on what we bought
and consumed.
We racked up a lot of debt,
but we didn't create many
jobs at all.
If we want an economy that's
built to last and built to
compete, we have to change that.
We have to restore America's
manufacturing might,
which is what helped us build
the largest middle class
in history.
That's why we chose to pull
the auto industry back from the
brink, saving hundreds
of thousands of jobs in
the process.
And that's why we're investing
in the next generation of high
tech American manufacturing.
But building an economy that
lasts isn't just about making
things -- it's about opening new
markets for people to buy them.
After all, 95% of the world's
consumers live outside
our borders.
And as the fastest-growing
region in the world,
no market is more important to
our economic future than the
Asia-Pacific region -- a
region where our exports already
support five million
American jobs.
That's why we recently signed
a landmark trade agreement with
South Korea that will support
tens of thousands of American
jobs and it's why I
traveled here this week.
In Hawaii, I hosted leaders from
all across the Asia-Pacific and
we agreed to make it easier
for American companies to do
business overseas.
I also worked with President
Medvedev of Russia to pursue
trade that would increase
exports and jobs for American
manufacturers and farmers.
And working with other leaders,
we made progress towards our
most ambitious trade
agreement yet --
a partnership with Pacific
nations that hold the potential
for more exports and more jobs
in a region of nearly three
billion consumers.
We may be going
through tough times,
but as I've said
time and time again,
the United States still has the
world's most dynamic economy,
the finest universities, the
most innovative companies and
hardest-working people on Earth.
We can compete against
anybody and we can win.
As President, I intend to make
sure that happens by doing
everything I can to give
American workers and businesses
the chance to succeed.